README.md, before:

# SelectFromDoc
This program lets you select data from documents (Excel, CSV, JSON, Text, XML) or clipboard using SQL language, with the possibility to visualize data in charts.


## Cloning the repository
- Clone the repository using the command below :
```
git clone https://github.com/smatimed/SelectFromDoc.git
```

- Move into the directory where we have the project files :
```
cd SelectFromDoc
```

- Create a virtual environment :
Install pipenv first:
```
pip install pipenv
```
Create the virtual environment:
```
set pipenv_venv_in_project=1
pipenv install
```
The requirements, stored in the file 'Pipfile', (pandas, pandasql, openpyxl, xlrd, lxml, matplotlib) will be automatically installed. You can modify the version of Python in the file 'Pipfile' by changing the value of 'python_version = "3.11"'.

- Activate the virtual environment :
```
.venv\scripts\activate
```


## Running the application
- To run the application, use :
```
python SelectFromDoc.py
```
- Complete syntax :
```
python SelectFromDoc.py [-h] [-d DOC]
```
- You can use the excutable, generated using pyinstaller, which is in the folder 'Executable for Windows 64 bits'.


## Using the application
- select a document (Excel, CSV, JSON, Fixed-Width Text or XML) by clicking on the button "..."
- or copy data to clipboard, in this case click on the button "From clipboard" (after having copied data)
- write a SELECT request ('from doc' is mandatory)
- click on "Execute" button
- to save the result, choose a format (CSV, Excel, JSON, Html, Text or XML) and click on "Export" button
- to visualize a chart from data click on "chart toolbar" to display the related toolbar
  then give these informations:
  - Type of the chart (Area, Bar, Barh, Line, Pie, Scatter)
  - x-axis column: number of the column to use in X axis
  - y-axis column(s): number(s) of the column(s) to use in Y axis, separated by ',' if there is more than one
  - Title
  - x-label: Label for X axis (empty = no label)
  - y-label: Label for Y axis (empty = no label)
  - Legend: Legend for column(s) used for Y axis, separated by ',' if there is more than one (empty = no legend)
  - then click on the button "Visualization"
- to get help about SQlite select click on the button "SQL help".


## Screenshots
### main window
![mainwindow](https://github.com/smatimed/SelectFromDoc/blob/main/screenshots/main-screen.png?raw=true)

Commit message:

add open and save SQL request

README.md, after:

# SelectFromDoc
This program lets you select data from documents (Excel, CSV, JSON, Text, XML) or clipboard using SQL language, with the possibility to visualize data in charts.


## Cloning the repository
- Clone the repository using the command below :
```
git clone https://github.com/smatimed/SelectFromDoc.git
```

- Move into the directory where we have the project files :
```
cd SelectFromDoc
```

- Create a virtual environment :
Install pipenv first:
```
pip install pipenv
```
Create the virtual environment:
```
set pipenv_venv_in_project=1
pipenv install
```
The requirements, stored in the file 'Pipfile', (pandas, pandasql, openpyxl, xlrd, lxml, matplotlib) will be automatically installed. You can modify the version of Python in the file 'Pipfile' by changing the value of 'python_version = "3.11"'.

- Activate the virtual environment :
```
.venv\scripts\activate
```


## Running the application
- To run the application, use :
```
python SelectFromDoc.py
```
- Complete syntax :
```
python SelectFromDoc.py [-h] [-d DOC]
```
- To generate an excutable for Windows system, use:
```
call .venv\scripts\activate
set PYTHONPATH=path-to-python-folder
set PYTHONLIB=path-to-python-folder\lib
pyinstaller --onefile --clean -p .venv\Lib\site-packages --noconsole --add-data "Open.png;." --add-data "Save.png;." --add-data "SelectFromDoc.ico;." --icon=SelectFromDoc.ico SelectFromDoc.py
```
Replace "path-to-python-folder" by python path in your system.
The excutable will be generated in the subfolder 'dist'.

## Using the application
- select a document (Excel, CSV, JSON, Fixed-Width Text or XML) by clicking on the button "..."
- or copy data to clipboard, in this case click on the button "From clipboard" (after having copied data)
- write a SELECT request ('from doc' is mandatory)
- click on "Execute" button
- to save the result, choose a format (CSV, Excel, JSON, Html, Text or XML) and click on "Export" button
- to visualize a chart from data click on "chart toolbar" to display the related toolbar
  then give these informations:
  - Type of the chart (Area, Bar, Barh, Line, Pie, Scatter)
  - x-axis column: number of the column to use in X axis
  - y-axis column(s): number(s) of the column(s) to use in Y axis, separated by ',' if there is more than one
  - Title
  - x-label: Label for X axis (empty = no label)
  - y-label: Label for Y axis (empty = no label)
  - Legend: Legend for column(s) used for Y axis, separated by ',' if there is more than one (empty = no legend)
  - then click on the button "Visualization"
- to get help about SQlite select click on the button "SQL help".


## Screenshots
### main window
![mainwindow](https://github.com/smatimed/SelectFromDoc/blob/main/screenshots/main-screen.png?raw=true)
